Which are the four pillars of oops?Explain each pillar with real life examples. 
 Explain the java features. 
 What is class and what is object? Explain it with a real life example. 
 
Why is java known as a truly object oriented language? 
Java is purely an object oriented language due to the absence of global scope, Everything in java is an object, all the program codes and data resides within classes and objects. 
It comes with an extensive set of classes, arranged in packages, object model in java in sample and easy to extend.
 
 What is the difference between C++ and Java? 
 Why is java known as a platform independent language? 
 Why is java known as robust and dynamic? 
 How is java more secure? Explain 

 What is static memory allocation and dynamic memory allocation? In java, when these types of allocation is done? 
 
Describe the memory areas used in java. 
The memory in the JVM is divided into five different parts namely− 
Method area− The method area stores the class code − code of the variables and methods. 
Heap − The Java objects are created in this area. 
Java Stack− While running methods the results are stored in the stack memory. PC registers− These contain the address of the instructions of the methods. 
Native method stacks− Similar to Java stack, native methods are executed on the Native method stacks.
PC Registers

 What is JVM? 
 What is JIT? 
 What is JRE? 
 
What is a Class Loader?
Class loaders are responsible for loading Java classes during runtime 
dynamically to the JVM (Java Virtual Machine). Also, they are part of the JRE 

 What is the difference between Class Loader and JIT? 
 What is the Difference between Java Compiler and JIT? 
 In java generally your class name from where execution starts and file name should be the same. Why? 
 What is the magic behind platform independence of java? 
 Explain the process of compilation and execution in java. 
 Byte code resides in which file? 
 Which file is generated by the java compiler? 
 Whether JVM is platform dependent? 
 Why is main in java declared as public static? 
 Explain System.out.println().
 Explain System class properties.
 Which class is the predefined super class of all the classes?
 Describe some properties of Object class.
 What is the use of the toString method? Which class' method is it?
 When you display an object of any class, which method will be implicitly called?
 Why need to override the toString method of Object class?
 What is garbage collection in java?
 When the finalize method is called and why?
 Why is there no need for an explicit destructor in java?
 In java, when objects will get loaded in memory?
 Explain Java data types with size.
 Explain  derived and user defined data types.
 Why does char data type have a size of 2 bytes instead of 1 byte?
 Explain different types of modifiers in java.
 What is the difference between access modifiers and non-access modifiers in java?
 Explain scope of access modifiers.
 What is the use of the static keyword?
45. What is the difference between static and volatile variable?
46. Define the properties of static variables?